The 0day cycle begins on the 1st day of every (in-game) even numbered month, and is available for the first half of the month.

The first part is finding a chat log, which will contain a partial IP address.  That partial IP address is part of an address that is the same address for everybody, so if other people do the same mission, they can potentially fill in the rest of the IP address, if you work together.  If you do not have someone to collaborate with, you can reply to the mission email with your partial address, and the mission sender will give you a new mission which is the solo-mission for the 0day.  This solo mission is unique to you, but it is very difficult to complete.  It will, however, eventually lead you to the completed address (the same one you would get if you combined partial addresses with other players).

The last part is about email.  You will have received (as part of the same chat log as that very first partial address) a username for a user on that final network.  There will be another user on that network which you can send one of two social engineering emails from to the first user, who, if done correctly, will reply with a set of 0day credentials (these credentials are unique to you).

Once you have the credentials, you can use them in a few different ways.  You start by obtaining a 'DebugLibrary' from a metalib.  How you get the metalib does not matter.  You pass in the credentials to the debug_tools function to get the DebugLibrary object.  Then you use the 'scan' function to find code errors that "may lead to vulnerabilities".  Basically, you'll be given a snippet of code, and you have to identify which lines are incorrect.

When you have identified the lines containing errors, you use the unit_testing function by passing in a list of the line numbers, like this: [2,4,8].  If you get it correct, the unit_testing function will return a list of memory zones and the types of objects you get by exploiting those.  You can then apply a patch to that library with the apply_patch function (this is how you patch a library).  You can do this as often as you like, to as many libraries as you want.  Once a library is patched, it is no longer vulnerable to 0days for a set period of time.  Every time you patch a library again, that protection extends further out into the future, to the point where you can have a library that is patched weeks or even months out ahead of time.

Or, you can use the 'payload' function to exploit a metalib.  Once you use the 'payload' function to exploit a 0day vulnerability, the credentials are "locked" to that network, and the payload function cannot be executed for a library in any other network.  However, the payload function is super powerful.  You will get back a partial object representing the device that metalib was loaded from.  Additionally, if you pass in a path with the payload function, you'll get back a partial file object representing the file at that path as well.  And if the file at that path is a library, you'll get back a metalib object for it too.  Which means you can hack local libraries remotely, which can be hugely powerful.
